Alright! In this video, I want to talk
about some of the deployment
architectures that we're going to
typically see with Relational Database
Management Systems.
Now the RDBMS is can be deployed in a
number of different ways and the
deployment architecture is going to be
driven by the needs of scalability and
availability and we do have a lot of
options here. We have everything from a
single non dedicated server, where you're
running multiple things on an addition
to the database to many dedicated
servers where you have a cluster of
database servers, so you can have a
single server or many servers.
Typically, communication is going to be
done over a network web socket so this
is important when we start connecting to
the database, you're going to see this in
play, so you're going to see a network
address or localhost and then a port
name. Like if I remember right, MySQL is 3306
so that is a number that identifies that
socket so that's very typical and
often the client or the thing that's
talking to the database is going to need
something called a driver. That
driver is going to be specific to
the database that you're using. If
I'm using Oracle, I would need an Oracle
driver to talk to Oracle over that
network socket, so that communication
layer is absolutely proprietary between
the databases. So that is a specific
thing for the databases.
Take a look at this. The simplest thing, a
simple non-dedicated server so I have a
single server. It could be a.. I'm using
server and air quotes here it could be
your your laptop your home computer or a
virtual machine running up on Amazon as
a server, so just a single machine. The
relational database management system is
installed on the machine. User logs in
and accesses that database from the
command line, so all the major databases
have a command line interface that you
can log in, get to the command line, and
access the database. So it's like the
simplest thing that we can do for
talking to it. Often you're going to go over
localhost and network socket and I say
often because there are variants to this.
There are local communication network
protocols when you're talking on the
same system for inter-process
communication. I'm not going to run down
that rabbit all because it does vary
between operating systems. Just want you
to be aware of that. This is like
the absolute simplest thing. Now let's
take a something that's also very
popular. This is a very common set up
and this is called the LAMP Stack.
That's just one example. LAMP is very
popular. LAMP stands for Linux, Apache,
MySQL, and PHP. I would have to venture I
guess and say probably 70% of the
websites out there are running the LAMP
Stack just because of WordPress is the
most popular web hosting software or
website hosting software.
springframework.guru that is a wordpress
site. It is running on a Amazon image ec2
instance of a virtual machine up on
Amazon. It is running Linux and the LAMP
Stack. The database is right on
that machine, so just a single server
with the database installed Apache is on
it and it serves up web pages. Often,
your application, if it's just a website
is not going to outgrow this. I could
probably call out Drupal need traffic on
springframework.guru and still not need
to upgrade that database, so there's a
lot of headroom there. The downside is
what's happening here in this scenario
is Apache
and the database in MySQL software are
competing for the limited resources of
that database server. Now let's take a
look at its called Client Server. This
was a big buzz in the 90s. I remember 90s
when I entered the industry
dating myself a little bit. But that was
like all the buzz everybody's like
moving away from mainframes and we had
to go to client server, so it was like
cloud computing today. So the basic
concept was to move the application code
to a client at different hardware. So it
became the client as conceptually while
we used a dedicated hardware for the
database server so it was splitting that
application load off the server that
limited resource of the server that was
running the database. It was a
way to achieve scalability and you still
see this used quite a bit in some form
so it's a concept that really hasn't
gone away but you don't hear called
client server too often anymore. But the
concept stays the same, where you have an
external client running its own
application code and then talking to a
dedicated application server. So let's
look at that last slide here. In the LAMP
stack here, if I wanted to scale this out
further, let's say I'm running against
system resources, I could move my
database to a separate server, and now
I'd be running an air quotes client
server.
Let's go ahead here. Now talk about
scaling Client Server. What it does here
is give you the opportunity scale and as
we were going through the .com era
and when the .com boom, this became
very popular way of scaling out
ecommerce sites where you could take
your application servers and
load-balanced that internet traffic
across the application servers and they
became responsible for serving up the
web pages and doing such and management.
All that stuff that you can do on an
e-commerce site. So you have a small
server farm of application servers and
then you'd have a dedicated database
server and sometimes that database
server can get quite large and often as
you scale it up, you would actually take
the storage and dedicate that to call it
as network attached storage and so you
awfully load just all the i/o management
to dedicated hardware so this is a very
very scalable architecture but that
database server becomes the single
point of failure. I saw I mean you
can get mainframe like systems for that
database server and they run into the
hundreds of thousand millions of dollars
for the single database server so they I
mean they're a crazy huge. But in this
type of architecture, it does give you a
very highly scalable system. Now what if
we want to take this even further? So
then we started looking at database
clusters, so now we can scale out the
application tier and then apply an
assembler concept where we start using
multiple servers for the databases so an
example is Oracle RAC or Oracle Real
Application Cluster proves scalability
over a single database server, and also,
we improve reliability because now we
can lose a database server of the
cluster or service of a node a single
server that can fail and the system will
keep running, just like in the
applications and the application tier. If
one of those systems fail, the load
balancer just stop spreading load to it,
so very scalable, very redundant system.
And then I have a Mainframe like
performance. For people, remember
that good old mainframe systems I've run
like airlines and stuff. Never like
multi-million dollar systems and have
crazy computing power. This is a very
scalable architecture and very reliable
architecture and very very common. To
be honest, this is probably going to get
you a scalability for 95%
use cases out there. But what if we have
to go and higher?
So I call that Cloud Sscale and think
about like the Amazon. I mean Amazon
did like 45% of Black Friday sales last
year. That was insane. But Amazon runs
multiple data centers around the world.
Same with Google and Facebook, they
all have dozens of data centers and
these data centers have tens of
thousands of computers in them. They have
these crazy a lot of balancing and that
is going into what's called distributed
computing, where the load is spread
across many many servers. Typically,
you're looking at the cheapest commodity
server. I've talked to guys that they
don't bother putting in a redundant
power supply unlike that buy the
cheapest hard and they can't. If it fails,
they just pull it out of the rack, throw
it away and throwing no one in. Sometimes they
don't try to fix it. But large mainframe
systems are absolutely avoided because
they don't want a single point of
failure. By single point of failure,
the mainframes in a building in a data
center that as a single point of failure.
You lose that data center. So these are
truly distributed system. A Facebook
could lose a data center and you would
never even know it. It would just continue
on running same with Amazon. If you
lose multiple data centers, you wouldn't
even know. It just keep on going. In this
type of situation, relational databases
are not used. This is a hugely different
paradigm shift from Client Server
because you are looking at distributed
computing. This is a huge shift and
I'm going to keep this outside of this in
this course. We are looking at SQL and
looking at the relational databases so
when you're going to stick and within that
side of paradigm, but this is a fun topic.
But probably looking at the top
three to five percent of use cases that
need to get into this.